Hey guys welcome back to the course so in this lecture we're going to talk about what is at Jayal.
So what does this add to our thing that you might have heard of.
So you might have heard of it and you might not have heard if you know what agile is you even used it
before.
Skip this lecture save yourself some time.
I'm going to cover very basically what it is what you should know about it and whether or not it should
apply to your development business.
OK.
So the best way of explaining it with regards to a project is to explain that there's two ways of delivering
a product.
The first one would be to have all of your specifications have all your project requirements built up
front you analyze them give an estimate and then you build the entire thing.
And at the very end you have a big hurrah you pop champagne and the project's done.
In that scenario you deliver the application in one big final piece and then you go and do feedback
rounds where they say fix this fix this change this change this.
Now the alternative is what's called agile and agile what you do is you work on separate chunks of the
application and you deliver each one at a time and then go through feedback rounds.
So the way that you do this is by listing out tasks and features and then trying to figure out how long
each individual feature or task is going to take then what you do is you take all of those features
and you gather them into essentially what are bundles and each individual agile methodology has a different
name for them but with scrum we call them sprints.
You can also call them iterations but they're basically burst of work.
So maybe we have a hundred different features.
We'll bundle up these ones into eight because they're bigger ones and these ones into 12 and these ones
into 20 etc etc. and then we'll tackle each individual chunk of work at a time.
Now with agile what you're focusing on is making each individual chunk of work or a sprint or iteration
and making whatever you build in that section fully tested and ready to be deployed by the end of that
session.
So in our scenario we do sprints and so what we'll do is we'll take features for a two week sprint the
end of the two weeks everything should be fully designed fully tested and if we deploy it it should
act as if the whole thing was finished.
Andrew when you post a big chunk of work nothing should have dependencies on other sections of the application
everything should deploy as if it's 100 percent done.
Now typically a truly agile team will develop with a designer in pair and the designer then will design
as the developers create requirements.
So traditionally what you'll do is you'll do one of big design once that's okayed then you'll go and
actually develop an agile and traditional Jayal you'll have a designer who designs as it's being developed.
Now there are some obvious advantages to that.
The designer will only spend time on requirements as they're needed and also it allows them to be more
flexible.
As things change they can change it on the fly.
So that's the basics of what agile is.
It's a very very very basic thing.
A lot of people even specialize and teach courses on agile that is just a crash course.
Now the way that it applies to development businesses is you have the option of following an agile methodology
and then offering chunks of work to your clients having multiple feedback arounds depending on which
Chunk's been done as opposed to having one big hurrah the end of your project.
Now here at Sprint Qik we're obviously big fans of agile and that's what we use and actually caught
on our name is sprint.
It's just a play on words because we deliver breads and Sprint Qik is just another way of showing acceleration
or speed.
Now as a project in general agile has a lot of benefits.
It's generally faster and in general it's going to deliver code that's better produced and better tested.
It allows you to reassess your project mid progression and make any changes along the way that you need
to.
It's a much more flexible modular way of looking at a project and that's probably why most development
teams out there use some form of this methodology and that's probably why there's so many courses on
you to worry about running agile teams.
But what's the biggest reason why this is a good thing for a development business.
Well agile and building your project in an agile way makes it a lot easier to sell.
Now when you estimate out your project you can do it in an agile way which means that you estimate it
out in hours hours are much more transparent and they're much more digestible for the client hours in
general also are much harder to argue with a client can say $500 is too much for they can't say four
hours is too long.
What you can do then is you can apply individual hourly estimates.
Every single task that allows your client to visualize how big the project is how big Certain sections
are and they can really just do an add drop pick which ones they want and drop the ones they don't.
The biggest benefit so is that you can periodically during the project deliver code that's 100 percent
fully deployable untested and allow your client to actually play around with it.
Now if you do this in one big batch that means that your client just big writes you a big check goes
to sleep wakes up in a couple of months when it's done.
But with agile they get to see progress during every single iteration every single Sprint they get to
see visual reinforcement that your project is progressing.
What's great about Agile is you can say this individual chunk of work because I've done an itemized
estimation is going to cost this much but you can also do is you can also say since we're building out
in chunks we'll only charge you for the first sprint at the end of the Sprint or iteration or chunk
of work where you can say is if you're not happy in any way since it's fully deployable fully tested
and it's done you can take that code base and have an easier time integrating that with a different
firm or different contractor.
In general they don't really need to understand the deeper codebase at least especially at first.
Now we've never had that actually happen to us but for your client to know that there's a way that they
can back out.
That's a big problem and a big worry that they have is that they can't ever get out of a project once
they know it's going to be a disaster.
Being able to show off your work every two weeks also allows you to tell much earlier on if something's
wrong with your project and whether or not you need to make a pivot or make some serious changes.
It saves everyone time and it saves you from running into some really hard project decisions down the
line.
If you miss something early and became a big problem.
So should you use Adya.
Well I strongly prefer using it because it's easier to sell.
It's easier to show your clients exactly what you're paying for.
This is when it's going to be done and it also makes the whole experience more interactive with more
transparency and in general I've experienced it makes our clients a lot happier.
Now if you need to build this into your system how do you go about doing that.
Well it's actually quite simple.
The vast majority of developers and subcontractors out there know how to build and least somewhat in
an agile fashion.
Now you don't need to follow agile traditionally to a T.
What you can simply do is say we need to follow a basic agile system build out individual features deliver
those features and just follow a basic path of chunk of work chunk of work chunk of work.
Now any true clients not going to know whether or not you're doing traditional scrum or traditional
extreme programming.
They're not going to know that all they know is that you're delivering in chunks which is essentially
the same thing.
So if you want to do agile look for contractors that have experience with Andile and make them know
that this is how you want to deliver the project.
This is how they should be doing their estimates and this is how they should be timing their updates
and their check ins.
OK.
And for some reason you guys want to become an expert and agile there's a lot of great use to me courses
on it.
They can teach you all about it.
Probably more helpful if you are a developer or a programmer yourself but also quite educational if
you're not.
All right guys.
Any questions post in the group discussion.
Otherwise send me a private message.
See the next lecture.